Vocabulary - Chapter 1

problem solving: The process of formulating a problem, finding a solution,
and expressing the solution.

hardware: The electronic and mechanical components of a computer, such
as CPUs, RAM, and hard disks.

processor: A computer chip that performs simple instructions like basic arith-
metic and logic.

memory: Circuits that store data as long as the computer is turn on. Not to
be confused with permanent storage devices like hard disks and flash.

program: A sequence of instructions that specifies how to perform tasks on
a computer. Also known as software.

programming: The application of problem solving to creating executable
computer programs.

statement: Part of a program that specifies one step of an algorithm.
print statement: A statement that causes output to be displayed on the
screen.

method: A named sequence of statements.

class: For now, a collection of related methods. (We will see later that there
is a lot more to it.)

comment: A part of a program that contains information about the program
but has no effect when the program runs.

high-level language: A programming language that is designed to be easy
for humans to read and write.

low-level language: A programming language that is designed to be easy
for a computer to run. Also called “machine language” or “assembly
language”.

portable: The ability of a program to run on more than one kind of computer.
interpret: To run a program in a high-level language by translating it one
line at a time and immediately executing the corresponding instructions.

compile: To translate a program in a high-level language into a low-level
language, all at once, in preparation for later execution.

source code: A program in a high-level language, before being compiled.

object code: The output of the compiler, after translating the program.

executable: Another name for object code that is ready to run on specific
hardware.

byte code: A special kind of object code used for Java programs. Byte code
is similar to a low-level language, but it is portable like a high-level
language.

string: A sequence of characters; the primary data type for text.

newline: A special character signifying the end of a line of text. Also known
as line ending, end of line (EOL), or line break.

escape sequence: A sequence of code that represents a special character
when used inside a string.

algorithm: A procedure or formula for solving a problem, with or without a
computer.

computer science: The scientific and practical approach to computation
and its applications.

bug: An error in a program.

debugging: The process of finding and removing errors.