The flow of execution for a while statement is:

1. Evaluate the condition in parentheses, yielding true or false.
2. If the condition is false, skip the following statements in braces.
3. If the condition is true, execute the statements and go back to step 1.

This type of flow is called a loop, because the last step “loops back around” to the first.

for (int i = 2; i <= 8; i += 2) { 
    System.out.print(i + ", ");
}
System.out.println("Who do we appreciate?");

for loops have three components in parentheses, separated by semicolons: the initializer, the condition, and the update.

1. The initializer runs once at the very beginning of the loop. (It is equiv- alent to the line before the while statement.)
2. The condition is checked each time through the loop. If it is false, the loop ends. Otherwise, the body of the loop is executed (again).
3. At the end of each iteration, the update runs, and we go back to step 2.

The for loop is often easier to read because it puts all the loop-related state- ments at the top of the loop. Doing so allows you to focus on the statements in the loop body.

There is another difference between for loops and while loops: if you declare a variable in the initializer, it only exists inside the for loop.

for (int n = 3; n > 0; n--) { 
    System.out.println(n);
}
System.out.println("n is now " + n); // compiler error

The last line tries to display n (for no reason other than demonstration) but it won’t work. If you need to use a loop variable outside the loop, you have to declare it outside the loop, like this:

int n;
for (n = 3; n > 0; n--) {
    System.out.println(n); 
}
System.out.println("n is now " + n);

Notice that the for statement does not say int n = 3. Rather, it simply initializes the existing variable n.

5.7 Vocabulary
loop: A statement that executes a sequence of statements repeatedly. 

loop body: The statements inside the loop.

infinite loop: A loop whose condition is always true.

increment: Increase the value of a variable by 1.

decrement: Decrease the value of a variable by 1.

iteration: Executing a sequence of statements repeatedly.

loop variable: A variable that is initialized, tested, and updated in order to control a loop.

primality test: A method to determine whether a number is prime.